# randomGenerator
The main objective of this project is to design and develop a web-based application allowing the generation of random and independent test case inputs. The suggested solution offers the software tester the ability to specify a set of parameters that the generated inputs would have to respect,  mainly the data type of inputs: be it JSON files, CSV files, or simply strings, number of elements to generate, the vocabulary to use, plus a possibility to use regular expressions to specify the pattern to be followed. Additionally, the tool can be accessed either by a friendly user interface, or through an Application Programming Interface (API).

First and foremost, in order to use our application, running the web server is required. To do that, either by using the command line to the windows explorer, start by opening the project folder.
The next step is to open the command line and run the server using the following
command (nodejs must be already installed):
## > Node server.js
This will automatically launch the server which will be passively waiting under
the port 4600.
At this point, and with the help of your favourite browser, navigating the webbased
application can be possible by accessing the following path:
http://localhost:4600/#!/test

## Splash Screen
The first screen is a dashboard containing a little introductory paragraph along
with 5 panels or cards leading to the different random input generators available:
JSON, CSV, Strings, Integer, or Image generator. The web-based application
also has a static top bar menu as well as a sidebar menu for quickly accessing the
generators regardless of the current route.

## JSON Screen
If the user chooses to click on the JSON card, they will be dealing with the JSON randomizer page which is composed of 3 different layers: Load templates layer, initial template,
as well as the resulting JSON. The first one helps the user to load one of the preexisting
JSON templates into the initial template layer and modify it, if needed.
The user can then click on randomize to generate a random JSON based on the
template entered. In case the data generated is satisfying the tester's needs, The end-user can either
copy the data into the clipboard or download it as a .txt file.

## String Screen
If the user chooses to click on the strings card, they will be lead to the String Randomizer page which starts by inviting the user to choose if they want to let the randomizer
pick the lengths of the strings and the numbers of the results to generate. In
case they choose to uncheck the corresponding boxes, they are invited to pick
the lengths of the strings themselves as well as the number of results to generate.
Additionally, the user has also the opportunity to specify the string options to
be generated. As stated in the functional requirement section, they can pick one
of the following formats: lowercase, upper case, a mixture of both, lowercase and
numbers, all letters and numbers, digits only, or fnally using regular expressions.

## CSV Screen
CSV randomization is also possible. The user can select the CSV dept (number of rows they are expecting),
CSV columns, and the delimiter between each component generated. The semicolon
is used by default. Additionally, the user has the ability to specify the
length of each string generated (or specify the range as: min, max) as well as
the characters or alphabets to base the generation on. The user can also specify
the range in terms of characters. For instance, if the alphabets to use are all the
set of letters between a and z, the user can enter a-z without the need of writing
them all. As a final step, the user can download the random data generated in a CSV file.

## Numbers Screen
Through-out the whole web-based application, the user interface remained consistent.
With the first block reserved for the generation parameters that the
randomizer will base the results, and the second block reserved for displaying the
actual output with an invitation to copy or download it as a .txt. This keeps the
web-based application concise and prevents the end-user's confusion when going
from one section to another. In regards to the numbers generator screen, the
same structure has been respected. The first block is an invitation for the user
to pick whether or not the number of results must be generated randomly. Then,
two input fields prompt the user to enter how long the sequence must be, with a
minimum and maximum number of digits per number. Lastly, the user is asked
to enter the delimiter between the generated sequences. The line escape '\n' is
used by default.

## Images Screen
The image randomizer part has way less parameters that the end-user should
handle compared to other sections. Small size random pictures are generated by
default.

# APIs Used for this project

DummyJson: is a node package that helps us generate random JSON data. The
module itself comes with a set of common helpers allowing the generation of frequent
data objects such as first names, last names, university names, dates, cities,
countries.

RandExp: One of the main utilities we made use of during this project is the RandExp.js. It
is an external library written in javascript, that helps javascript developers create
random strings given a pattern or a random expression. The randomness of
this module is based on the javascript method Math.random().

Unsplash: In order to generate images, we used unsplash, a free external library that
helps generate random high-quality photos. With the help of the $http service
provided by AngularJS.
